Once you have a steady stream of data flowing into your monitoring system,
you have a new task.
Make sense of it all.
But reading monitoring data can feel a bit like drinking from a fire hose.
We need something to help us not only see the current state of our systems,
but also see the trends and the patterns that can
help us make better decisions about tweaks in infrastructure.
This is a job for data visualization tools.
Grafana is a multi-platform open source solution for running data analytics,
pulling up metrics that makes sense of the massive amount of data,
and monitoring apps through customizable dashboards.
Grafana works with many systems,
namely Graphite and Prometheus.
Kibana is an open-source data visualization dashboard
that's part of the ELK Stack or Elastic Stack.
It provides visualization capabilities on
top of the content in an elastic search cluster.
Datadog is a popular cloud-based monitoring service
that not only collects and aggregates server data,
but it also provides many easy-to-configure data visualizations and templates.
Prometheus. Prometheus doesn't attempt to implement
robust feature field data visualizations as part of its core offering.
In fact, in the documentation,
they encourage us to use Grafana.
But they do offer the expression browser,
which allows us to experiment with formulas called expressions,
and produce simple line graphs for things like CPU usage,
available memory, and disk space.